in a subtle way this is a pretty
psychologically disturbing video in this
short clip you're about to see my
ex-father-in-law grandpa Pete sits down
with Noor vegan and the funny thing is
this clip is right at the beginning
after they sort of do a sound check and
get the pleasantries out of the way you
can tell they discussed this in advance
and they decided this was like a really
strong story to lead with like this was
something that really denounced me as
like a psychologically disturbing
character and the truth is if you just
pause and think about it for a moment
it's really sad and a really disturbing
what it shows you about old grandpa Pete
here and oh yeah if there were any truth
to his story of course he'd just show
you the emails these emails that
supposedly contain proof of this
salacious conspiracy theory and noir
vegan would do the same for his
conspiracy theory but they ain't got
those emails to show I do I'll show you
right now exactly what the emails say
and you're gonna get to see just how
little correspondence there is between
this man's story and reality I would
like you to tell people what ISIL did to
you and your wife and how he tried to
basically break you up because that's
basically the same thing it did to me
and Hannah yeah ISIL this becomes a
little complex because ISIL is not a
simple guy in this respect he recruited
my daughter to send my wife a letter in
which in what's very obviously isil's
language she informed
my wife that I should say
aisel informed my wife that I was a
dangerous man that I was subject to
violent outbreaks of temper and that she
would be putting - her entire family in
danger if she stayed together with me I
think I don't really need to explain how
this led to some interesting
conversations between my wife and me but
by the time she got this note she'd
already known me for 10 years and she
knew there wasn't the word of truth in
it let's start by just saying the rules
I'm playing by these are the rules I am
choosing to play by this video shows
only number one email written by myself
and two email written by grandpa Pete
let me just saw on screen there so in
this video I am avoiding showing email
written by my ex-wife I have those
emails if there were any truth to this
ridiculous far-fetched fiction that
cramp up Pete has just laid out to you
I'm sure he would be showing you the
emails if there were any truth of the
claim nor vigan just made that I had
tried to make him and his girlfriend
break up he made all those emails public
right so he'd be able to show that from
the email correspondence to me in him
both of these guys their quote unquote
interpretation of reality is
unbelievably far removed from reality
but these the rules I'm playing by I'm
not gonna show you an email written by
my ex-wife um you're gonna be able to
figure out quite enough to discredit old
Pete here just from what he said
and when I said back to him all right
here's the logic of the claim and guys
keep in mind extraordinary claims
require extraordinary evidence
number one Pete says that his own
daughter sent an email complaining that
he's a bad father or bad person and you
know he like describes this as if this
was a union
email in the history of his relationship
with his daughter like what so are you
seeing you had acrimonious
correspondence going back and forth
between you and your daughter for years
like these kinds of allegations and
complaints and disputes were going on or
what is the audience actually supposed
to imagine that you had this wonderful
relationship with your daughter and then
all of a sudden out of nowhere there's
just this one email saying that you've
been a bad father and that this leads to
you having a conflict with your with
your wife your second wife of the time
it's already there's some pretty clear
signs of manipulating the narrative here
and attempting very clumsily to
manipulate the audience okay but Pete's
daughter sent an email complaining that
he's basically a bad person to his his
second wife and he's provided you with
some details that like you know this
specifies that he flight he he has a
temper he flies into a rage this kind of
thing right his interpretation of this
email he isn't your petition no evidence
no source his interpretation is that
this email was secretly written by me or
that I had somehow like manipulated his
daughter into writing it right like his
daughter isn't respond oh no and like
yeah it's just this one email because
why what what motivated me to do this
why would I go stright a secret email
from from his daughter to his second one
because of my secret plan to break up
his marriage to his second wife look I
met your wife once what was I trying to
seduce you're so white this is an
extraordinary claim that you should be
able to prove or substantiate somehow
and just Occam's razor is not on your
side here if any therapist were hearing
somebody say this the therapist would
sit there and say well okay here's a
crazy theory that this guy received an
acrimonious email from his daughter his
daughter is not happy with him and he
would prefer to believe he would prefer
to justify himself and dismiss this
email
and explain away how unhappy his
daughters he would prefer to to imagine
that this email was secretly written by
his son-in-law right and then why well
that's ridiculous why would his
son-in-law ever in it instead of his
daughter oh well because of this crazy
scheme he's invented in his head that
his son-in-law is trying to break up his
marriage to it and then you know Occam's
razor instead would suggest that Peter
is just really unhappy that he got this
email and he made up a story about it
right it's I'm sure therapists you're
that kind of thing with that and finally
he ain't showing you the emails so Wow
Wow Peter do you really think you have
email that proves I was trying to break
up your marriage is that what you say
well let's see exactly what the email
said for a little bit of context I made
those bouquets myself by hand Maury was
not happy with the options going down
and paying a professional florist at the
market so I said look don't worry about
it I used to live in Cambodia and Laos
it's going into the market by on flowers
I can bind him up and I made bouquets
for every single person who attended our
wedding it's not that impressive when
you realize how few people we had they
were attending a wedding this wedding
this day this was the only occasion ever
when I met Peter and his second wife
face to face so this was these photos
were taken at the very time I met
interacted with Peter really the only
time I interact with Peter over the
couple of days of this wedding ceremony
event and I did indeed have a handmade
bouquet one that I made myself for Peter
and for his wife for everyone who was
there so guys in preparing this video I
mean I really had to go back and look at
positive emails between myself and Max
wife for the first time in many years as
you can imagine in the divorce
proceedings sometimes I have to go back
and look at agrimony as' emails between
myself and Mary but Wow I mean looking
at these more positive cooperative
emails between her and I it's a
minor that we really used to love each
other we really used to have a very
close very cooperative relationship
especially in response to crises of this
kind her and I really talked through in
a very constructive positive way how to
cope with the challenges polis by her
father her father's behavior that was
extremely hurtful to her and you know
sometimes as with this latest public
performance I would say went right into
the realm of the certifiably insane the
other thing about our legal wedding
ceremony that Pete may be in denial
about and that is implicitly and
explicitly affirmed in these emails have
just been reading over again and again
is that his relationship with my wife
was so negative was so invidious and so
hostile that she refused to let him
attend our wedding at all she didn't
want him there and her position that is
again stated in all the emails of this
period was that she never wanted to see
him again face to face ever in her life
now if they've improved their
relationship since then I'm happy for
them but what you're gonna see in these
emails is that my position was being
moderate I really did understand
Tesoro my wife was bringing into the
situation and after I met Peter I
realized how incredibly difficult it was
to deal with him face to face in real
life at all and why she had given up
however my position was not what Peter
imagines in this paranoid delusion it
was not that I was trying to destroy his
relationship with his second wife and
not that I was trying to destroy his
relationship with his daughter the
reason why you were invited in the end
Pete was me I said to me ray look I know
you really don't want him to attend the
wedding but maybe just maybe this is an
opportunity for us to make this
relationship better to improve the
situation and it may be the last
opportunity we get for many years to
come in part because of the geography of
where we were
we were taking airplanes all over the
world it really didn't seem likely that
we'd have that opportunity against a
within five years so I said look let's
sit down at the same table with Pete
let's give him a chance and Pete we gave
you a chance and your performance at
that wedding was disgraceful so here in
contrast to the version of the story you
just heard in contrast to the version of
the story that he and his daughter were
getting along just great
until until I entered the relationship
from stage left at I just I ruined your
wonderful relationship with your
daughter Pete hears your voice from your
own pen your email and you brought this
on yourself Pete you went public
you made claims about what these emails
said you came on the internet to defame
and denounce me so here we go this is
you Pete writing to your own daughter
Maury Maury there were many things I
regret about how I've acted as a parent
and I've told you very directly how
sorry I am from my share of the chaos
and pain in our household it's terribly
painful to see how angry and unhappy you
are what a burden you're carrying even
more than 12 years after you left that
household if you don't say it all
explicitly it's unambiguous in how you
express yourself I've sometimes thought
that it may have been a good idea for
you to leave that but I also know that
your mother and I weren't but her
failures as parents and both we and you
were somewhat unanchored by your early
absence I could be quite explicit about
that so pause what he's alluding to here
is that my wife chose to leave home as
young as she possibly could to get away
from her parents
really above all else to get away from
you
Peter and you know that you know that
her quote unquote early absence you know
what she was running away from I
continued quote how hard it must be even
to imagine trying to have a serious
discussion with someone you consider
dishonest narcissistic selfish and a
bully as you've described me but I don't
recognize myself in that description
it's a simple fact that you and I have
seen very little of one another since
you were adolescent and just as that
means I wasn't with you as you went
through important growth since then it
also means that you don't know me
certainly not as I am now with an
adult's perception you left so long ago
you wanted to get out and stay clear so
pause so he's aware of this you see he
is aware he's saying you wanted to get
out and stay clear you wanted to get
away from me you want to get away from
the family you want to get away from
your father right you want to get out
and stay clear but I don't know if
you're unaware how unfortunate this has
always seemed to me what a source of
sadness it is both the early departure
and the staying clear at least when your
mother left for India Arielle and I
could lay some groundwork in getting to
know and appreciate one another and that
has paid some dividends that are simply
missing in our relations yours and mine
with all your anger and your need to
control our communication it makes sense
that you'd keep your distance I was so
looking forward to seeing you in your
own world someone familiar to me and
learning of your work there that would
have been something very concrete on
your ground this pause Pete you and I
have talked about this it's one of the
only conversations we've ever had when
you came to our wedding you did not ask
one question about my wife's life in
China you did not ask one question about
my life and experience in China you did
not ask about our lives in places like
Thailand Laos and Cambodia you showed
absolutely zero positive interest in who
she was as an adult and you showed the
zero interest in who this man was whom
she'd met and fallen in love with in
China whom she chose never you made
absolutely no effort that way your
actual way from what you did do as I've
already said vaguely enough was instead
just disgraceful and it was indeed just
as you've described yourself in the same
email it was bullying
and narcissistic and here I repeat
myself I think give you every single day
with the wish that things will turn out
well for you and that we might have
trusting rewarding relations with one
another now this to me is even more
revealing though Peter if you watch this
I know you imagine you have just made
the claim that at exactly this time the
brief period when we're on email
corresponds with each other that I have
a devious scheme to destroy your
relationship with your second wife and
that I'm that I'm the real author of the
email you just replied to from us that I
secretly wrote the email you just
responded to that's what you claimed
Peter that's insane and impossible on so
many levels
but here's the reality of how I replied
to your email Peter how I replied to it
addressing your daughter my wife quote I
think his response is better than we
were expecting even if it isn't better
than could be reasonably expected you're
now in a much better situation than with
him that I am with either one of my
parents number one he's saying he's
willing to make an effort even if he
doesn't know how to number two
he says he's aware that he's done wrong
even if he doesn't understand what it
was and isn't interested in ever
understanding it nor admitting to it etc
so guys you can read the rest of this
email on-screen I'm not going to go
through it line by line but my response
was positive and constructive and
conciliatory I mean here I say by
contrast I'll never get one word as
conciliatory from either one of my
parents as you've just gotten more than
once in this message mere father you
know my parents think they've done
nothing wrong
your father's willing to say hey he
knows he's done something wrong okay and
you'll see here this is interesting this
is the very ending of this email at the
very conclusion you might say for my
part I do think it is possible that your
father could at
point stay in a hotel several blocks
away from you for a brief period during
a vacation be it in Taiwan or who knows
where else that would be a lot more
effort for him than it would be for us
so this is in the context of my ex-wife
she never wanted to talk to her father
again she wanted to have absolutely no
communication she didn't want to even be
able to attend her wedding and I'm
saying hey recognize the positive
elements here maybe maybe some level of
cooperation and reconciliation as
possible even that's just sending him a
couple emails a year meeting up with him
on vacation at a distance not letting
him into your home you not trusting him
enough to go into his home maybe maybe
we can do something positive so Peter
you never knew it or you never
appreciated it but I was being moderate
and a reasonable and supportive in a
sense I was trying to be on your side
it's difficult for me to say that
anything should be obvious to people in
the audience because look I don't know I
don't know how you guys miss so many
obvious red flags but it does seem to me
that it should be obvious to all of you
that this is a crazy story Pete made up
relatively recently to justify I don't
know his behavior to justify a sense of
sorrow loss to make himself out to be
the hero instead of the villain a lot of
people think and act that way they
engage in that kind of self-deception
self-justification I don't I'm really
really not interested in playing those
games not even in my private life
much less here on the internet as I've
always said on this channel I'm gonna
give it to you raw and if you guys don't
like it subscribe to my other channel
where you thought the air about my
personal life but here we get an email
from Peter to me directly and if he
hadn't made up this story recently if he
hadn't just recently made up this crazy
story that I was trying to break up his
marriage and that I was secretly
manipulating Maury that I was ghost
writing or emailed that like I created
this conflict between him and his
daughter and apparently my motivation he
claims was to break breakup
marriage it's completely insane if you
hadn't made this up recently Pete why is
it that years ago when we were in
conversation there's absolutely no end
of it so you're writing to me here
you're not nice but it's very obvious
that you're a later or fantasy about me
hadn't yet been formulated so you write
to me at the time so this is right at
the time when allegedly I'm part of this
series this I'm part of this ridiculous
conspiracy right you write to me aisel
if I've somehow offended you I have no
idea how but I can't see any advantage
in engaging in a conversation where
important things are unsaid or have said
or only implied let them be said
directly so Pete if any of this stuff
you now claim was true why why would you
write this to me is this how you write
to someone whom you actually believe is
trying to break up your marriage is this
how you write to someone you think is
secretly writing email impersonating
your daughter or manipulating the
situation in this prison no you made up
all this nonsense later here you are
apologizing to me right and this is the
start of this email correspondence you
say if I've offended you I'm sorry you
and I have something enormous in common
other than our short haircuts which are
subject to change our love and concern
from your a you're not yet in a position
to know what it means to love someone
from the instant of their birth until
now but in my life it's a force greater
than gravity and more durable than
mountains so you can pretty much assume
I'm not going to spontaneously upset
myself from their raised life
failing some unimaginable Cataclysm you
and I are going to be in one another's
lives and given that let's see what we
can do to create understanding between
ourselves it's in our own interest and
morees so the reality is Pete was
writing this at a time when he had
absented himself from a raised life for
many many years he is not just that he
had been absent he had chosen to have
sent himself and as we've already
discussed Maury for her part had also
given up on him and how do I reply no
surprise really
a completely positive encouraging
constructive email you guys can read
every word of this for yourself if you
want to look 3/4 the way down the page
here I say if you want to be part of
your daughter's life if you want to be a
part of my life you can have my
encouragement and advice however you
don't have a lot of options and all of
them require a significant degree of
effort on your part
so I'm recognizing just how rocky just
so negative just how bad the
relationship is between him and his
daughter but I'm saying hey I'm willing
to do something positive this period of
time right after Maury finished
university studies although she's
finished with a PhD at a later age than
most this difficult time where she's you
know looking for work and moving all
around the world
oh yeah there's there's something worth
gossiping about I for my part worked
behind the counter of a cheese shop as
my first show job after graduating there
you go so if you really knew what he was
doing trying to make me look bad why
didn't he come on the internet and say
aisel Mozart is vegan now but you know
decades ago he used to wear leather
boots and he used to work at a cheese
shop that's right I later applied to
work at a gas station
after that she shop fired me for
pointing out that they were selling
rancid coffee by cheating their own best
before date system that's the truth then
I ended up in Hong Kong I had a job in
Hong Kong that's why I'm with Hong Kong
I ended up in Hong Kong before I started
talking to guests that's right there was
a delay before that job started and one
from one of the other I don't know why
he wants to insult me about my work
record you guys can read my resume I
think none of those jobs those types of
small jobs they don't get mentioned in
my resume or my CV but sure I know work
and I work Pete how about you
and yeah the conclusion here is look you
know if you want to have a positive
relationship with your daughter you're
gonna have to work hard for it I'm going
to do what I can't help and you could
imagine his response to this was
completely negative it went nowhere and
today he's still making up lies about me
on the Internet
Peter there was abs
solutely no resemblance between the
reality of this email correspondence and
the lies you are telling on the Internet
today
it's a quote Tyrion Lannister I wish I
could be the monster that you think of
him but what I really am is the man your
daughter fell in love with and it's a
shame you never figured out why
[Music]